# Continuum-Code
Codes for Continuum Heteroepitaxy simulations: The purpose of this C program is to simulate the growth of Ge/Si strained heteroepitaxial system on a pre-patterned substrate in the presence of noise due to MBE beam fluctuations. The method used is continuum modeling where a non-local, non-linear partial differential equation describing surface evolution is solved by an order-by-order expansion of the evolution equation in Fourier space. The time-evolution is performed using a fourth-order pseudo-spectral Runge-Kutta integrator. The code uses the fftw3 library. 
The input parameters are defined in the file initial.h where the total length of the simulation and the system size can also be specified. 

Prior to running the code, the system size is used along with the elastic energy parameters to calculate the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of an array of 6X6 matrices that appears in the solution of the equilibrium elasticity equations. For the system size of 128 X 128, the eigenvalues have been calculated using a Mathematica code and the results of these calculations are stored in the directories Evector and Evalues. 

The code can be compiled using the command: gcc main_program.c -lm -lfftw3

and the code can be run using : ./a.out

Contents: 
   main_program : The main program reads the relevant eigenvalues and eigenvectors from external files, performes the one-time calculations using linear_OneTCaladd.c and calls the timestepping subroutine runge_kutta.c. The Fourier routines are declared here for the different variables. 
   
   initial.h : This header file contains the parameters used in the code, declares the 
   EValuesRead.c : Reads Eigenvalues from the files in Evalues
   EvectorRead.c : Reads Eigenvectors from the files in Evectors
   linear_OneTCaladd.c : This routine performs a set of one-time calculations that are carried out before the time-integration
   runge_kutta.c : This is the time-integration routine based on a 4th order pseudo-spectral Runge-Kutta method. It calls partial_deri.c
   partial_deri.c : Partial derivatives of height are calculated, some in real space and some in Fourier space. It also calls new_surface.c
   new_surface.c : This calculates the different surface energy terms in the evolution equation. It also calls elas_energy_corr.c
   elas_energy_corr.c : Here the elastic energy contribution to the surface chemical potential is calculated
   evolution_eqn_elas.c : The evolution equation term involving the elastic energy is implemented here

Input Data files: 
  The initial profile is taken from these files. This corresponds to a film over a pit-patterned substrate.
   input_height.dat 
   initial_str.dat 
   initial_str_array.dat 
   initial_pit_morpd.dat
   ft_initial_pit.dat 
   
   Evalues/ : This directory contains 24 input files which consist of the real and imaginary parts of the eigvenvalues for different Fourier components kx and ky. These are generated by Mathematica programs and which is run prior to running the code. 
   Evector/ : This directory contains 72 input files which consist of the real and imaginary parts of the 3 components of the 6 eigenvectors. This is also generated by the Mathematica program which is run prior to funning the code. 

   The output files for the current choice of initial condiations (500 timestpes and printout of data after every 50 steps) are in the form of text files:      
data_0.dat data_1.dat data_2.dat data_3.dat data_4.dat data_5.dat data_6.dat data_7.dat data_8.dat  data_9.dat                                        

The output can be visualized by running a gnuplot script such as: output.gnp
   
   
